so I think Taran and I hadn't quite
gotten married yet I remember going over
to her parents house and it was like a
crazy ass yell Fest it was like out of
control I was like oh she like
apparently her family is like mine it
was just yelling a lot when Taran and I
got married we just followed the pattern
and we had this great therapist who I
forever thankful for one of I would say
one of my greatest teachers and she said
you know she's like you're you're
emotionally abusing each other both T
and I were like no we're not we're just
yelling
you know it's just yelling I remember
it's like no we're not like uhuh like no
that's not that's not abuse like abuse
is something like when you're whacking
somebody on the head with a like a cast
iron skillet or something and she's like
no I want you to read this stuff and you
know she talk to us but her definition
which is stuck with me forever is
emotional abuse is when you are using
your emotion to try to control somebody
now the one that our society says is the
worst is anger
right yelling at me so that I do the
thing so that like you know and the
abusive person who's yelling or
Screaming or even hitting like that
aggressive thing that's what we say is
bad but it's just as true using guilt to
try to control somebody as emotional
abuse or using your sadness look how how
hurt I am see how bad you are or using
your fear
like they like take care of me take all
my fear for me anytime when you're
putting the emotion at the person and
you want to control them and try to have
them take care of you or do what you
want bend them to your will through your
emotions that's that's abuse and so
that's one of the things that in a fight
you absolutely can't do in a way that
makes the fight productive now you can
do it you can go out of the room and you
can yell and you can scream and you can
get sad and guilty and it doesn't matter
like you can get angry and and sad and
scared in a fight too that's all fine
just can't be at the other person it
can't be trying to control them and it
can't make them feel unsafe and if it
doesn't do any of that fine great all
the emotions are fine we love emotions
but if you're using it to control
somebody or if they feel controlled by
the
emotion then it becomes incredibly
unproductive because it's abuse it's
like yelling at one another or it's like
guilting one another it's basically
saying I going to control you I'm going
to oppress you with this emotion now
people have different ways of doing it
and like one of my favorite that is like
very like not seen almost at all is the
person who's like the weak person who's
like oh you said something critical to
me and now I'm broken down and I'm sad
and I'm not going to get up for two
weeks and I can't love you anymore and
I'm being a I'm being big about it but
this can happen in very small ways
that's just as much emotional abuse as
someone yelling at someone as a way to
scare them to get them to change so it's
really important that in a fight when
you're having a fight with somebody that
you're not using your emotions to
control them in fact that you're not
trying to control them in any way that
you're trying to see them that you are
trying to understand where they are
you're trying to allow yourself to be
seen when they're ready to see you that
you are finding a way that both of you
can come together and have a solution
that works for both of you not control
because the thing is like if you control
somebody to do something eventually that
breaks there's this um way that we
talked about Venture Capital which I
always loved which is you have to make a
lot of deals in Venture Capital big
deals in small deals and we would say
the amount of energy it took to make the
deal is the amount of energy you have to
use to maintain
it so if a deal kind of happened like
gently and like it all happened and fell
into place those deals usually went
really really well if it was a deal
where it was like there was big
struggles and you had to negotiate this
thing and then you didn't quite see eye
to eye and everything was a little
you're shoving it into place you have to
maintain that to make that deal
successful and it's it wasn't 100% true
but it was true a lot similarly if you
have to control andol and like push
somebody into doing something so that
you can be happy you're going to have to
maintain that pressure to keep them in
that spot it doesn't freaking work
finding what their truth is finding
where they want to move and finding how
that aligns with you that's a much
easier way to to get to a place where
you're together and at peace and so it
doesn't even work to try to control
anybody for any kind of length of time
and it's why you see relationships where
somebody dominates through control those
aren't happy relationships whether it's
controlling through big emotion sadness
or big emotion anger or by withholding
love all of that none of it leads to a
happy relationship and just never works
[Music]